Before we get to 20 C plus plus code that uses pointers lets see what a pointer is a pointer is a variable.
OK we know all about variables.
Variables have an address in memory where they're bound to.
They also have a type such as int double string vector and so forth and they have a value which they
store.
A pointer is a variable and it stores the address of another variable or function.
So if I initialize an integer variable named X to 10 then X is of type integer and it's bound to some
memory location and it contains the value 10.
That means that I can declare a pointer variable that stores the address of x.
So a pointer is a variable that means that the pointer has a memory location where it's bound to.
It has a type.
It has a value and the value is an address.
We'll see how to declare a pointer in C++ in the next video.
Remember that a pointer points to a variable or to a function to use the pointer you must know the type
of what it points to before we learn about how to use pointers.
Let's see why we use pointers in the first place.
If a pointer points to a variable or a function.
Can't I just use the variable or the function directly.
Sure.
And if you can you should.
There is no sense in creating a pointer to something that you can use directly but you can't always
do that.
For example if you have some complex data that's defined outside a function and you want to access that
data from within the function you can't because the variable name is out of scope.
So you can pass the data to the function by value and make a copy of it or you can use a reference or
a pointer parameter to access that data from within the function.
Also pointers are often used to operate on arrays very efficiently.
In fact we'll see in this section just how interrelated pointers and arrays are.
We can use pointers to allocate memory from the heap or the Freestore dynamically at runtime.
That memory doesn't have a variable name associated with it.
So the only way to use it is through a pointer.
Finally if you're working with embedded systems device drivers or other types of systems software sometimes
you need to gain access to a specific memory address or a range of memory addresses pointers is the
best way to do that.
OK now that we know a little bit more about what a pointer is and why we would use one.
Let's see how we can declare a pointer variable in the next video.